We investigated the efficacy and safety of the statin rosuvastatin in patients with heart failure.
Effect of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and rosuvastatin in patients with heart failure: results of the GISSI-HF trial.
However, there is some suggestion of a lower rate of clinical heart failure in patients treated with epirubicin.We identified two RCTs with varying quality addressing liposomal-encapsulated doxorubicin versus conventional doxorubicin (521 patients).
The meta-analysis showed a significantly lower rate of both clinical heart failure and clinical and subclinical heart failure combined in patients treated with liposomal-encapsulated doxorubicin (RR = 0.20, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.75 and RR = 0.38, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.59 respectively).
Midregional proadrenomedullin (MR-proADM) is elevated in patients with heart failure and myocardial infarction.
Because N-terminal fragment of the B-type natriuretic peptide, troponin Ic, midregional fragment of the proatrial natriuretic peptide, proadrenomedullin, and copeptin are prognostic markers in patients with cardiac failure, we hypothesized that, among patients with refractory cardiogenic shock of potentially reversible cause supported with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), the kinetics of these markers might help identify patients who would recover.
PAP therapy may cause unexpected hypotension especially in patients with low baseline BP as seen in HF patients treated according to current guidelines.
The traditional treatments, diuretics and digitalis, continue to play a major role in the management of many patients with CHF;
In 76 consecutive patients who had received diuretics for 1-17 years for arterial hypertension or congestive heart failure, muscle concentrations of magnesium, potassium, and sodium-potassium pumps were significantly reduced compared to 31 age- and sex-matched controls.
Effect of enalapril on congestive heart failure treated with diuretics in elderly patients with prior myocardial infarction and normal left ventricular ejection fraction.
Diuretics are administered in patients with CHF to cut this vicious cycle by reducing blood volume.
Understanding the mechanisms by which diuretic resistance occurs in patients with CHF has allowed design of appropriate dosing regimens of these drugs and rational use of combinations of diuretics.
Previous studies in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) treated with diuretics and/or digoxin have shown abnormalities of cellular volume and electrolytes in biopsies of skeletal muscle.
To assess the prevalence of thiamin deficiency in patients with congestive heart failure who are treated with diuretics that inhibit sodium and chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle (loop diuretic therapy).
This review discusses the therapeutic value of physical exercise in patients with congestive heart failure.
Augmented response in plasma atrial natriuretic peptide to dynamic exercise in patients with congestive heart failure.
Neurohormonal activation is present and neurohormonal responses to dynamic exercise are altered in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
Exercise for patients with congestive heart failure.
Vest can be used to evaluate cardiac responses during 6-min walk test and cardiopulmonary exercise in patients with CHF.
On the other hand, plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) level was augmented by exercise in patients with CHF and patients with TGA but not in the controls.
On the other hand, plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) level was augmented by exercise in patients with CHF and patients with TGA but not in the controls.
Sixteen patients with CHF and 7 volunteers underwent constant bicycle exercise.
Coadministration of nitrates with other vasodilators, such as captopril and hydralazine, may avoid the development of nitrate tolerance in patients with congestive heart failure.
Oral isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine improves survival in patients with CHF, and should be administered to patients with CHF and abnormal or normal LV ejection fraction who cannot tolerate ACE inhibitor therapy or in whom CHF persists despite therapy with diuretics plus ACE inhibitors.
Hydralazine has been shown to reduce mortality in patients with congestive heart failure when given concomitantly with isosorbide dinitrate.
The long-term outcome of surgery was excellent in patients with benign cardiac tumors.
Patients with benign primary cardiac tumors appear to benefit from the complete resection afforded by cardiectomy and transplantation.
The determination of All and Ald levels may be a helpful tool in monitoring the efficacy of treatment in CHF and may help identify patients who would benefit from other treatment strategies.
Comparative accuracy of color M-mode and tissue Doppler echocardiography in the emergency diagnosis of congestive heart failure in chronic hypertensive patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction.
We assessed the diagnostic value of the pulsed Doppler-derived isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) by bedside Doppler echocardiography in the emergency diagnosis of new-onset congestive heart failure with preserved systolic function in 43 patients presenting with acute severe dyspnea and inconclusive BNP levels.
This study compared the psychosocial hypotheses generated by 12 internists and 12 family physicians as they reviewed three patient presentations with diagnoses of congestive heart failure, common duct stone, and sick sinus syndrome.
The author emphasizes the current reawakening of interest of clinicians and investigators in congestive heart failure (CHF) as a consequence of the known bad prognosis of this syndrome and the new diagnostic techniques and drugs they may use in patients with this syndrome.
The validity and utility of physical examination maneuvers were determined in diagnosing congestive heart failure (CHF) in patients with acute dyspnea.
Persistently increased serum concentrations of cardiac troponin (cTn) are a prognostic marker in patients suffering from chronic congestive heart failure (CHF), but the significance in acute cardiac decompensation is unclear.
Plasma NT-pro-BNP levels can help clinicians in the detection of CHF in pediatric patients with Fontan circulation.
A prospective cohort study was conducted of all patients aged 60 years and over admitted to the John Hunter and Mater Hospitals, in the Hunter Area, in whom congestive heart failure contributed to the need for hospital admission.
A retrospective review of 185 consecutive patients admitted to a Canadian tertiary care facility between April 1998 and March 1999 with a primary diagnosis of CHF and who were treated by internists (IM group) or cardiologists (CARD group) was conducted.
Utility of a rapid B-natriuretic peptide assay in differentiating congestive heart failure from lung disease in patients presenting with dyspnea.
Almost any ECG diagnostic entity may turn out to be useful in the care of patients with CHF, revealing the non-specificity of the ECG in CHF.
This study aimed to assess whether the combination of a B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) level with various noninvasive hemodynamic parameters can help physicians more quickly and accurately diagnose congestive heart failure and determine the type of left ventricular dysfunction present in patients presenting to the emergency department with dyspnea.
The Quebec hospital discharge database was linked with the physician and drug claims databases to identify a cohort of patients who had a diagnosis of CHF (code 428 in the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision) between January 1998 and December 2002.
Thus, NPs can reliably add to the information a physician brings to the table as they attempt to diagnose the acutely dyspneic patient with CHF.
A total of 104 patients (38 female, 66 male; mean age, 66 y [range, 36-89]) with symptoms and signs of heart failure on admission and with a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (EF; by transthoracic echocardiography) were labeled "the patient group," and 58 patients (40 female,18 male; mean age, 61 y [range, 34-77]) with no signs or symptoms of CHF and with a normal EF detected by transthoracic echocardiography were included in the study as "the control group."
Though subsequent blood cultures were negative, patient remained in congestive cardiac failure and died due to complications.
Ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial ischemia, although mostly subclinical, were common in patients with stable CAD undergoing emergent endoscopy for UGIB, especially in those with concomitant congestive heart failure.
Forty-eight consecutive patients with AF underwent CPVI and were followed up.
Incidence of oesophageal wall injury post-pulmonary vein antrum isolation for treatment of patients with atrial fibrillation.
The study included 234 patients (aged 23 to 80 years; 72% men) with symptomatic drug-resistant paroxysmal (n = 165) or persistent AF (n = 69) who underwent either Lasso-guided segmental pulmonary vein isolation (n = 83) or CARTO-guided left atrial circumferential ablation (n = 151).
Thoracoscopic pulmonary vein isolation in patients with atrial fibrillation and failed percutaneous ablation.
Cryoballoon ablation is increasingly used for pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).
The high density mesh ablator (HDMA), a mesh electrode catheter using radiofrequency delivery for pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), has been shown to have a high acute ablation success rate.
We enrolled 23 patients with recurrent AF who underwent elective circumferential pulmonary vein isolation.
For pulmonary vein isolation in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), some centers use the double transseptal puncture technique for catheter access in order to facilitate catheter manipulation within the left atrium.
We compared the detection of intraluminal esophageal temperature rises in 543 patients undergoing RF ablation for AF with ETM.
This study confirms the clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for visualising PV ostia in patients undergoing radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation.
The effects of slow-release formulations of gallopamil (100 mg b.i.d.), diltiazem (120 mg b.i.d.), or verapamil (120 mg b.i.d.) on VR were evaluated in 18 patients with PAF without organic heart disease.
The overall distribution of ACE I/D genotypes in patients with and without AF was significantly different (p=0.001).
Our study suggests that ACE I/D polymorphism is associated with AF and the DD genotype may be an independent predictive factor for AF in patients with hypertensive heart disease.
This suggests that beta-blocker treatment may be effective in patients with atrial fibrillation associated with cardiomyopathy and hyperthyroidism.
A marked increase in hospitalization for patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) has previously been noted.
Patients on digoxin therapy had a lower left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF), higher prevalence of previous hospitalizations for HF and atrial fibrillation, and lower prevalence of hypertension.
By linkage of nationwide Danish administrative registers we conducted an observational study including all patients with a first-time hospitalization for AF between 1995 and 2004 as well as prescription claims for OAC.
Medical inpatients who develop new onset AF during hospitalization for acute medical illnesses have an increased mortality when compared with patients who were admitted solely for new onset AF.
The aim of the study was to compare the efficacy and safety of pharmacological cardioversion (PC) by nibentan, a class III antiarrhythmic agent, and electrical cardioversion (EC) in patients with persisting atrial fibrillation (AFib) and atrial flutter (AFI) receiving basic antiarrhythmic therapy.
Linear cryoablation of the left atrium versus pulmonary vein cryoisolation in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation and valvular heart disease: correlation of electroanatomic mapping and long-term clinical results.
We sought to identify factors favoring long-term restoration of sinus rhythm (SR) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) who underwent a simple cryoablation of pulmonary vein orifices (PV-cryo) as part of their cardiac surgery.
Successful pulmonary vein isolation using transvenous catheter cryoablation improves quality-of-life in patients with atrial fibrillation.
The aim of the study was to analyze CRT results in patients with permanent AF.
In conclusion, patients with AF treated with CRT who survived at the 12-month follow-up had the same functional improvement and remodeling as those in SR.
Cardiac resynchronisation therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy is effective in appropriately selected patients with both sinus rhythm and AF.
Patients with ASD and atrial fibrillation (sustained or paroxysmal) should undergo surgical repair of ASD and a Cox-Maze procedure.
Increased VRI variability, independently of other clinical variables, can predict good exercise capacity in patients with idiopathic AF, thus being a new sensitive maker for quality of life in AF.
Observational studies indicate that outpatient cardiac monitoring detects previously undiagnosed atrial fibrillation (AF) in 5% to 20% of patients with recent stroke.
Plasma B-type natriuretic peptide levels predict postoperative atrial fibrillation in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.
Anomaly of the left atrium in patients with atrial fibrillation detected by ECG-gated multi-slice computed tomography.
This is the first study demonstrating that peri-atrial EAT volume estimated by MDCT excellently predicted the development of new-onset AF in patients with CAD, independent of LA enlargement.
Plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide levels predict new-onset atrial fibrillation in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
We performed transcriptional profiling of left atrial myocardium from patients with AF and sinus rhythm and applied cultured primary cardiac cells and transgenic mice with overexpression of constitutively active V12Rac1 (RacET) in which AF develops at old age to characterize mediators of the signal transduction of atrial remodeling.
In conclusion, BNP levels can predict new AF in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
BNP levels can predict new atrial fibrillation during hospitalization in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
The patients who maintained SR had smaller body mass index (BMI) (P = 0.048), shorter duration of AF (P = 0.012), and lower prevalence of diabetes mellitus (P = 0.023) compared with patients in whom AF recurred.

