At 1 year after surgical PV isolation for AFIB, followed by valve repair, 7 patients had restoration to sinus rhythm, and 9 patients remained in persistent AFIB.
After PVI, 14 patients had recurrent paroxysmal AF, whereas after CPVA+LALA, 8 patients had recurrent AF, 6 had atypical left atrial flutter (LAFL), and 2 had both AF and LAFL (P=0.32 between PVI versus CPVA+LALA for AF but P=0.002 for LAFL).
Preliminary data suggest that early assessment and patient education may reduce emergency department visits and hospitalizations for AF.
The rate of bleeding requiring hospitalization was higher in AF versus non-AF patients (1.5% vs 0.8%, P<.0001), possibly related to the more frequent use of anticoagulants (53.1% vs 7.1%).
Mentions of warfarin, beta-blockers, digoxin, diltiazem, verapamil, and all class I and class III antiarrhythmic drugs made by US office-based physicians during patient visits for AF between October 1999 and September 2003 were evaluated using the IMS Health National Disease and Therapeutic Index (Plymouth Meeting, PA).
Covariate-adjusted ORs for AF were systematically greater for larger patients than for patients in the normal group (adjusted OR [95% CI]=1.18 [1.00 to 1.40], 1.36 [1.14 to 1.63], 1.69 [1.35 to 2.11], and 2.39 [1.81 to 3.17] for overweight, obese I, obese II, and obese III, respectively).
Published studies of patients faced with decisions about hormone therapy, prenatal testing, lung cancer treatments, and anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation;
Both AF and SR patients benefited significantly from CRT.
The measured arterial pulse waveform can be used to diagnose hypertension and cardiac failure in patients.
The situation of caregivers in heart failure and their role in improving patient outcomes.
Increasing evidence suggests that serum uric acid (UA), a product of xanthine oxidase (XO), may be a useful marker for metabolic, hemodynamic, and functional staging in heart failure (HF) and a valid predictor of survival in HF patients.
BNP levels show a strong inverse association with eGFR in both CHF and non-CHF patients.
The patient, a 68-year-old diabetic hypertensive male with dyspnoea and cough had an abnormal chest radiograph, revealing congestive heart failure and an enlarged right hilum.
Echocardiography (ECHO) confirmed 147 previously diagnosed CHFs, and further detected a silent coronary artery disease in 26 cases, a valvular disease in 22, and an atrial septal defect in one patient.
Plasma AVP levels were elevated in CHF compared with non-CHF patients (2.98 +/- 2.48 vs. 1.01 +/- 0.44 pg/ml, P less than 0.01).
To determine the relationship between LVEF and clinically diagnosed CHF, we compared resting LVEF determined by radionuclide ventriculography with diagnosis of CHF by clinical criteria in 407 patients, based on clinical data collected by a cardiology fellow.
Eighty-three patients (47 men, 36 women, mean age 70 +/- 10 years) were referred to our hospital ambulatory from their general practitioners, with a diagnosis of CHF.
Clinical and Doppler-echocardiographic assessment of patients referred by their general practitioner (GP) with the diagnosis of CHF.
The hepatojugular reflux and Valsalva maneuvers were valid in the diagnosis of congestive heart failure in acutely dyspneic patients.
The patient underwent a bilateral cerebral angiography that showed a left CCF fed by meningo-hypophyseal branches of the right internal carotid artery and draining from the cavernous sinus into a parahippocampal vein.
It is concluded that basal circulating NPY-Li and catecholamine levels are increased in congestive heart failure and that this neurohormone could play a concomitant role in the increase in peripheral resistance in these patients.
These data (1) provide the first evidence for ongoing myofibrillar degradation and increased cardiac troponin I levels in patients with advanced heart failure and (2) show potential usefulness of cardiac troponin I as a specific and sensitive new serum marker molecule in severe congestive heart failure.
When NIV is chosen for a patient in CHF, the critical care nurse needs to be vigilant in assessing and monitoring these patients, especially those in severe CHF.
Patients (n = 87) admitted to a community-based academic medical center with a primary diagnosis of pneumonia, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive airway disease, their nurses (n = 111), and resident physicians (67).
Sixty patients, mean age 82 +/- 8 years, with congestive heart failure, prior myocardial infarction, normal left ventricular ejection fraction, and > or = 30 ventricular premature complexes per hour detected by 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms, and who were treated with diuretics, were randomized to treatment with benazepril 20 to 40 mg/day (30 patients) or to no benazepril (30 patients).
Patients (n = 87) admitted to a community-based academic medical center with a primary diagnosis of pneumonia, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive airway disease, their nurses (n = 111), and resident physicians (67).
Inferior vena cava ultrasound is a rapid, reliable means for identification of CHF in the acutely dyspneic patient.
Aim of this study was to evaluate the analytical performance of a direct NT-proCNP assay and to measure its plasma levels in heart failure (CHF), diabetes and chirrosis patients.
Similar reductions were observed for the sequence analysis (P < 0.01) in both CHF and CAD patients.
A SurveyMonkey internet survey was e-mailed to 7,265 US physicians, including 3,542 rheumatologists and 3,723 nonrheumatologists, with the following query: Please indicate the relative importance of 5 sources of information-vital signs, patient history, physical examination, laboratory tests, and ancillary studies-in diagnosis of congestive heart failure (CHF), diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, lymphoma, pulmonary fibrosis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and ulcerative colitis."
Clinical trial evidence in support of supplementary vitamin and mineral therapies for heart failure patients is limited with the exception of documented calcium and possibly vitamin D, thiamine, and coenzyme Q10 deficiencies.
In this study we investigated benefits of a Pycnogenol - coenzyme Q10 combination (PycnoQ10) taken as an adjunct to medical treatment in stable heart failure patients.
PIIINP concentration, echocardiographic variables, oxygen consumption, hospitalisation for heart failure, and cardiac mortality were evaluated in patients grouped by the presence of non-restrictive (group 1), reversible (group 2), and irreversible restrictive mitral pattern (group 3).
This review examines the role of hospitalization for heart failure as an opportunity to assess comprehensive patient needs including palliative care needs.
Little is known concerning the significance of lung activity of the sympathetic neuronal imaging agent (123)I-MIBG in heart failure patients and healthy subjects.
Acknowledgement of these issues and discussion of strategies by which they can be addressed has the potential to augment clinical research, develop practice and ultimately produce the much needed improvements in patient care required for those with advanced heart failure.
Rosuvastatin also produced a significant reduction in LDL-cholesterol levels in heart failure patients in the UNIVERSE study, but had no effect on left ventricular remodelling compared to placebo.
A prospective analysis was conducted of fungal sIgG and sIgE using a 9-mold RAST panel in 13 AFS, 11 AFS-like, and 27 non-AFS polypoid rhinosinusitis patients.
Low basal fT3 concentration can reliably predict the occurrence of postoperative AF in CABG patients.
The 12-lead ECGs of 30 patients in atrial fibrillation were analyzed.
Mitochondria were analyzed in the atrial tissue by electron microscopy in four patients in AF and four patients in SR.
High-resolution proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of cardiac tissue from patients in persistent AF revealed a rise in beta-hydroxybutyrate, the major substrate in ketone body metabolism, along with an increase in ketogenic amino acids and glycine.
Overall, von Willebrand factor antigen levels and ristocetin cofactor activities in the AF(+) patients were higher than in the AF(-) patients (P = .003 and P = .002, respectively).
Multiple and simultaneous intraatrial bipolar recordings from 27 patients in AF were analyzed before and after infusing a propofol bolus.
Studies have shown that continuous rhythm monitoring enables the detection of significantly more atrial fibrillation (AF) episodes than routine follow-up of patients, i.e. based on perception of symptoms or on 24-48 h Holter monitoring.
Patient records were reviewed to determine the incidence of new onset AF defined as any electrocardiogram evidence of AF or AF diagnosed by the patients' clinicians.
Many clinicians and patients have been reluctant to use warfarin therapy in AF, with underuse generally attributed to the inconvenience of INR monitoring, complexities of drug and dietary interactions associated with warfarin, and perceived bleeding risk.
Cardiology patient page: stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation.
To examine the interrelationship between unpaid caregiver, patient and thromboprophylaxis characteristics and caregiver burden in AF.
Eligible patients had a diagnosis of AF, received thromboprophylaxis to prevent stroke, lived in the community and had an adult, unpaid, English-speaking caregiver.
Beta-blocker titration was associated with clinical improvement in both AF and SR patients: LVEF, 6-minute walk distance, physical and psychosocial components of QoL scores, self-rated health and NYHA class (p<0.05, for all).


