Metabolic balance studies were carried out on five patients with resistant heart failure treated with spironolactone and other diuretics.
It is suggested that potassium depletion is not a major problem in patients with heart-failure treated with diuretics.
Piretanide, a diuretic that acts on the loop of Henle, was used to treat patients with cardiac failure.
The relation between the average serum potassium value and the frequency of low values (hypokalaemia) is such that very low values after taking diuretics are unusual in patients with hypertension or heart failure.
It is suggested that beta-receptor blockade should be added to conventional treatment with digitalis and diuretics in all patients with severe myocardial failure caused by congestive cardiomyopathy.
These findings support experimental evidence that the renin-angiotensin system is important in the pathogenesis of hyponatremia in patients with severe heart failure treated with diuretics.
To evaluate the efficacy of left ventriculectomy, on a short term basis, as a treatment for patients with end-stage heart failure.
Some studies demonstrated also the symptomatic improvement following therapy with betablockers in patients with heart failure.
In patients with reduced heart function, treatment for heart failure and prophylaxis of VT and/or VF should be administered.
There has been an intensive search for safe and clinically effective inotropic agents for use as adjunctive therapy in patients with advanced heart failure.
This article reviews the physiological changes that occur in the elderly and the treatment approach that can be taken in elderly patients with heart failure.
Therapies that interrupt, or even reverse, the neurohumoral activation in heart failure hold the greatest promise for the growing patient population afflicted with this syndrome.
Use and impact of inotropes and vasodilator therapy in hospitalized patients with severe heart failure.
Hemodynamic goals have been used in the past to guide therapy in patients with heart failure (HF).
Although there have been significant advances in the therapy of heart failure in recent decades, such as the introduction of beta-blockers and antagonists of the renin-angiotensin system, there is still a major unmet need for better therapies for many patients with heart failure.
Promising aspects and caveats of studies on anti-apoptotic therapies in patients with heart failure.
It is essential that the affiliated professional, including the nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, and physician assistant, be aware of the current treatments and technology that improve symptoms and reduce mortality rates in patients with heart failure.
Moreover, some studies have suggested that therapies targeted against AGEs may have therapeutic potential in patients with HF.
The left VPD appears to be relatively safe and potentially effective in the treatment for patients with HF and a prior anterior myocardial infarction.
ECMO is a reliable and useful treatment for patient with acute cardiac failure.
Treatments for patients with HF in 1999 and 2007 (n=13 330) were extracted from the General Practice Research Database.
Device therapy comprising of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) and cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) are used to treat heart rhythm disturbances in a broad range of patients with heart disease and have now become established therapies in patients with heart failure receiving standard medical therapy.
The implantation of mechanical circulatory support systems (MCS) has nowadays become an accepted treatment modality for patients with end-stage heart failure.
Concomitant valve surgery during VAD implantation appeared to be a reasonable option in end-stage heart failure patients with valvular heart disease.
Routine postoperative care encompasses patients who have undergone emergency ventricular assist device (VAD) implantation for acute cardiogenic shock, as a bridge to decision making, and semi-elective patients who have undergone VAD implantation for end-stage heart failure, either as destination therapy or as a bridge to heart transplantation.
This was a retrospective descriptive review of 87 patients with end-stage HF, who underwent implantation of HeartMate II continuous-flow LVAD over a 4 year period.
Axial flow left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation is an effective therapy for patients with advanced heart failure.
As the pharmacokinetics of the glycoside is practically not influenced by the renal function, meproscillarin represents an alternative in the treatment of patients with heart failure and impaired renal function.
In order to determine and compare the pharmacodynamic responses to single and multiple dose prazosin therapy in cardiac failure, 14 patients with severe low-output heart failure underwent central and regional hemodynamic measurements after random placement in one of two prazosin dosing schedules.
Therefore, we propose that the combined therapies, therapeutic VAD and therapeutic apheresis, will provide a prominent outcome for a patient who is suffering from end-stage heart failure.
Guideline-recommended therapies and interventions are under-utilized in patients with NSTE ACS and HF, with and without preserved systolic function, compared with those without HF.
To determine whether a pharmacist intervention improves medication adherence and health outcomes compared with usual care for low-income patients with heart failure.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a telephone-delivered empowerment intervention (EI) on clinically and theoretically relevant outcomes in patients with HF, including purposeful participation in goal attainment, self-management of HF, and perception of functional health.
To determine whether an intensive intervention at a heart failure (HF) clinic by a combination of a clinician and a cardiovascular nurse, both trained in HF, reduces the incidence of hospitalisation for worsening HF and/or all-cause mortality (primary end point) and improves functional status (including left ventricular ejection fraction, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class and quality of life) in patients with NYHA class III or IV.
The rapid response to intravenous captopril indicates that it may be useful in the treatment of patients with severe heart failure who require intensive treatment.
To evaluate the influence of renal function on the efficacy of converting-enzyme inhibition in patients with severe chronic heart failure, we measured the long-term hemodynamic and clinical responses to captopril in 101 consecutive patients with heart failure grouped according to pretreatment serum creatinine concentration (group I, less than 1.4 mg/dL; group II, 1.4 to 2.8 mg/dL; and group III, greater than 2.8 mg/dL).
[Response to exertion after treatment with captopril in hypertensive patients with cardiac insufficiency of a mild degree].
Captopril in elderly patients with heart failure.
Ramipril and captopril in patients with heart failure: effects on hemodynamics and vasoconstrictor systems.
In the present double-blind study, the acute and chronic hemodynamic and clinical benefits of the calcium antagonist nisoldipine (= BAY K 5552) were compared with captopril in the adjunctive treatment of patients with heart failure (NYHA III or IV).
Disopyramide should be used with caution in patients with heart failure.
Disopyramide is contraindicated in patients with severe heart failure and renal insufficiency.
Transapical left ventricular bypass which withdraws blood directly from the left ventricular apex through a roller pump and outflow filter with return to the femoral artery has been applied in 6 patients with cardiac failure.
In five patients with resistant heart failure treated with the oral converting-enzyme inhibitor, captopril, standardised and intensive haemodynamic, hormone, and electrolyte monitoring showed significantly raised cardiac output and reduced arterial, pulmonary-wedge, and pulmonary-artery pressures which correlated closely with concomitant alterations in the activity of the renin-angiotensin system.
Although angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors remain the treatment of choice for patients with HF, the similarity of the findings in the present analysis supports a role for angiotensin-receptor antagonists in this patient population.
Despite the improvements in survival with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers, the clinical events for patients with heart failure remain elevated.
In particular, many patients with heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction fail to receive beta blockers, although this class of drugs, as well as other antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, are recommended as part of routine heart failure therapy by national expert consensus guidelines.
These results portend an acceptable quality of life for long-term use of LVADs for patients with end-stage heart failure and contribute to the growing body of evidence supporting a clinical trial to test this new use.
Improvement of myocardial mitochondrial function after hemodynamic support with left ventricular assist devices in patients with heart failure.
Mitochondria were isolated from myocardial tissue obtained from 13 patients with heart failure without a left ventricular assist device (HF group) and seven patients with heart failure treated with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD-HF group).
Left ventricular assist devices (VAD) have improved survival in patients with end-stage heart failure.
Use of a permanent left ventricular assist device (LVAD) has been proposed as an alternate treatment of patients with end-stage heart failure. 16846822Heart failure improvement with CoQ10, Hawthorn, and magnesium in a patient scheduled for cardiac resynchronization-defibrillator therapy: a case study.
Our results, therefore, indicate that administration of coenzyme Q10 is useful in ameliorating cardiac failure in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy through its significant effect on improving diastolic function.
Mexiletine disposition is probably altered in patients with heart failure, liver disease, and severe renal dysfunction.
Aldosterone blockade has been shown to be effective in reducing total mortality as well as hospitalization for heart failure in patients with systolic left ventricular dysfunction (SLVD) due to chronic heart failure and in patients with SLVD post acute myocardial infarction.
IMPACT-HF compared the strategy of the initiation of carvedilol before patients were discharged versus usual care (Heart Failure Society of America guidelines recommend waiting 2 to 4 weeks after hospitalization for heart failure before initiating beta-blocker therapy) in 363 randomized patients with heart failure.
Despite compelling scientific evidence that beta-blockers reduce hospitalizations and mortality in patients with heart failure, this lifesaving therapy continues to be underused.
Despite the compelling scientific evidence that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, and aldosterone antagonists reduce hospitalizations and mortality in patients with heart failure, these life-saving therapies continue to be underutilized.
We studied 99 335 patients surviving first hospitalization for heart failure (HF) from 1997 to 2005.
Hospitalizations in patients with HF represent a major public health problem;
Hospitalizations in patients with heart failure: who and why.
Implantation of CRT-D rather than an implantable cardioverter defibrillator in patients with mild heart failure and QRS >/=130 ms reduced the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in MADIT-CRT;
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted to evaluate the effect of long-term administration of the vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist tolvaptan (30 mg/day) on reducing left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) compared with placebo in patients with HF and reduced systolic function, using quantitative radionuclide ventriculography at baseline, repeated after 1 year of therapy, and repeated again approximately 1 week after withdrawal of study drug.
Isosorbide dinitrate combined with hydralazine therapy compared with placebo in patients with heart failure resulted in a sustained increase in left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) indicative of regression of LV remodeling in the first Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial (V-HeFT-I) in patients receiving only digoxin and diuretic.
Among 26 randomised trials comparing beta-blockers with placebo in HF, 4 studies with 7250 patients provided information on the number of patients who died during follow-up in subgroups of ischaemic and non-ischaemic aetiology of HF.
We therefore conducted a double-blind study to evaluate the effect of PGE1 on extravascular lung water (EVLW) in patients with heart failure (NYHA III-IV) and borderline increased EVLW.
Effect of prostaglandin E1 on extravascular lung water in patients with severe heart failure.
Thus long-term parenteral home therapy with PGE1 infusions in patients with severe end-stage heart failure elicited beneficial clinical and hemodynamic effects without activating neurohumoral counterregulatory systems.
[Efficacy of prostaglandin E1 in treatment of cor pulmonale patients with heart failure].
Thirty caseas of cor pulmonale with heart failure were treated with PGE1 at a dose of 200 micrograms.d-1 for 5 days and in 30 patients with cor pulmonale heart failure (no PGE1) and in 20 healthy subjects as controls.
Microcirculatory forearm cutaneous blood flow was monitored continuously and noninvasively by laser doppler flow-metry (LDF) in 15 patients treated with the Berlin Heart biventricular assist device system (BVAD) for end-stage heart failure under stable hemodynamic states (BVAD pts, n = 10) and norepinephrine therapy (BVAD nor pts, n = 5).
The goal is the development of a multipurpose, totally implantable biventricular assist device (BVAD) that can be used for any patient who suffers from severe heart failure.
The purpose of this program is to design, develop, and clinically evaluate a new, implantable right ventricular assist device (RVAD) that can be used as a component of an implantable biventricular assist device for patients with severe biventricular heart failure.
We present the results of standard transthoracic echocardiographic assessment of a biventricular assist device implanted in a patient with progressive heart failure caused by acute giant-cell myocarditis.
Although the prognostic value of cardiac mIBG imaging in patients with HF has been shown, clinical use of this procedure has been limited.
In summary, these data demonstrate that intraarterial administration of ANF in patients with heart failure resulted in dose-related increases in forearm blood flow.
Whether or not inhaled methoxamine can provide long-term benefit in patients with heart failure will require further study.
Carvedilol, bisoprolol and metoprolol have been approved for use in patients with heart failure.
Recently, the COPERNICUS study established the efficacy of carvedilol in severe heart failure and extended the benefits of this drug first observed in patients with mild and moderate symptoms to those with advanced disease.
In euvolemic patients with symptoms at rest or on minimal exertion, the addition of carvedilol to conventional therapy ameliorates the severity of heart failure and reduces the risk of clinical deterioration, hospitalization, and other serious adverse clinical events.
Large trials have demonstrated the beneficial effects of the beta-blockers carvedilol, metoprolol and bisoprolol in patients with heart failure, most of whom were also receiving ACE inhibitors.
Discharge Use of Carvedilol is Associated with Higher Survival in Japanese Elderly Patients with Heart Failure Regardless of Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction.
The impact of carvedilol and metoprolol on inappropriate therapy in heart failure patients with devices has not yet been investigated.
Is carvedilol safe and efficaceous in severe heart failure patients accepted for heart transplantation?
Comparison of the effects of carvedilol and nebivolol on diastolic functions of the left ventricle in patients with non-ischemic heart failure.
Cardiac and stroke volume indices were measured at baseline and after 10 min of continuous positive airway pressure at both 5 and 10 cmH2O (0.5 and 0.99 kPa respectively) in 16 patients with heart failure and five control subjects with normal cardiac function.
Assessment of N-terminal brain natriuretic peptide (NT-BNP) as a screening tool for heart failure in patients with a permanent pacemaker.
BNP and NT-proBNP levels were higher in the 25 patients with heart failure than in the other 16 patients: 491.7 +/- 418 pg/ml vs.
Plasma AM, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), and N-terminal (NT) proBNP levels were measured in 55 patients with HF (New York Heart Association [NYHA] I n = 8, II n = 26, III n = 21) and in 20 controls;
Intravenous injection of rhBNP results in more rapid and long-lasting hemodynamic improvements than that of NIT in AMI patients with heart failure and it is also feasible and safe for clinic use in AMI patients with heart failure.
In conclusion, serial home infusions of nesiritide in patients with advanced HF appear to be safe and well tolerated, but the efficacy of this therapeutic strategy requires definition in a larger, randomized trial.
The efficacy of HBV vaccination in patients with advanced heart failure is not known.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the use of a standardized approach to improve vaccination rates in patients with heart failure (HF);
Effect of cardiac resynchronization therapy and implantable cardioverter defibrillator on quality of life in patients with heart failure: a meta-analysis.
Effect of cardiac resynchronization therapy and implantable cardioverter defibrillator on quality of life in patients with heart failure: a meta-analysis.
Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are recommended for patients with heart failure and/or ventricular arrhythmias at risk of sudden cardiac death.
In addition, most patients with HF are treated with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death.
In our division, 24 patients with heart failure (III-IV NYHA) and renal failure (III-IV NKF-DOQI) were treated with low flux bicarbonate dialysis, variable dialysate and limited ultra-filtration.
Cardiac natriuretic peptides are useful tools for evaluating elderly patients with heart failure.
Natriuretic peptides emerged during recent years as potent prognostic markers in patients with heart failure and acute myocardial infarction.
Activation of natriuretic peptides is demonstrated in patients with heart failure.
The authors compared natriuretic peptide levels in patients with heart failure at admission and at hospital discharge and examined the relationship between their natriuretic peptide levels and clinical status at hospital discharge.
Measurement of amino-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) is useful for evaluating patients with heart failure (HF).
Partial left ventriculectomy is a new surgical option quickly introduced into clinical use worldwide for treating end-stage heart failure in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.
Partial left ventriculectomy in patients with neoplasms and severe heart failure who are not candidates for cardiac transplantation.
Abnormal desmopressin-induced forearm vasodilatation in patients with heart failure: dependence on nitric oxide synthase activity.
Electroconvulsive therapy in patients with heart failure or valvular heart disease.
We conducted a retrospective review of the medical records of 35 patients with a history of heart failure and reduced left ventricular systolic heart function who underwent ECT at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, between January 1995 and December 2009.
The efficacy of dopamine infusions in doses of 2 to 10 micrograms/kg/min and combinations thereof with prolonged epidural lidocaine anesthesia (3.7 +/- 0.7 micrograms/kg/day) was assessed in 47 cardiosurgical patients with acute cardiac failure in the immediate postperfusion period.
In June 2004, a group of investigators who helped establish the natriuretic peptide treatment paradigm, met to discuss the potential role of nesiritide as an outpatient treatment option for patients with symptomatic HF who were at high risk for repeated admissions, a syndrome now described as ""chronic decompensated HF.
Another trial examined the impact of follow-up geriatric home-visits in patients with unstable cardiac failure discharged from the hospital.
Based on currently available data, heart failure disease management programs appear to be a cost-effective approach to reducing morbidity and enhancing quality of life in selected patients with heart failure.
To investigate the utilization and financial outcomes of a telephonic nursing disease-management program for elderly patients with heart failure.
Plasma concentrations of the recently discovered hormones adrenomedullin (ADM), from vascular tissue, and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), secreted by myocardium, are elevated in patients with heart failure.
Effect of nesiritide versus dobutamine on short-term outcomes in the treatment of patients with acutely decompensated heart failure.
Improved erectile function after cardiac resynchronization therapy in a patient with heart failure-a case report.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy produces both short-term hemodynamic and long-term symptomatic/mortality benefits in symptomatic heart failure patients with a QRS duration >120 ms.
To predict response to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) in patients with heart failure (HF) and intraventricular conduction delay.
Early cardiac resynchronization therapy and reverse remodeling in patients with mild heart failure: is it time?
Cardiac resynchronization therapy prolongs survival in appropriately selected patients with heart failure but the benefit might be diminished in patients with RV dysfunction.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) induces a significant improvement in patients with heart failure (HF), who are often characterized by the presence of endothelial dysfunction (ED) with impaired flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD).
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that patients with heart failure (HF) of ischemic origin, current indications for defibrillator implantation, and QRS <120 ms may benefit from CRT in the presence of marked mechanical dyssynchrony.
CCM is a device-based therapy for patients with advanced heart failure.
Randomized controlled trials have generated strong evidence on the efficacy of electrical device therapy in selected patients with heart failure (HF).
Closing the door after the horse has bolted: device therapy in patients with end-stage heart failure.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is a relatively new form of device therapy that reduces morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure.
Device therapy in heart failure patients with chronic kidney disease.
The GISSI Heart Failure project is a large-scale, randomized, double-blind study designed to investigate the effects of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and rosuvastatin on mortality and morbidity in patients with symptomatic heart failure.
Rosuvastatin did not reduce mortality compared to placebo in patients with heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction due to ischaemic heart disease in the CORONA study.
[Rosuvastatin in patients with heart failure--novel point of view on pleiotropic actions of statins on the basis of data from CORONA study].
We characterized the LFTs of 2679 patients with symptomatic chronic heart failure from the Candesartan in Heart failure: Assessment of Reduction in Mortality and morbidity program (CHARM).
Patients (n = 6, 095) with a diagnosis of heart failure and a measure of EF undergoing cardiac catheterization in Alberta, Canada between April 1999 and December 2004;
Pulmonary, aortic and precordial rheography in heart insufficiency and in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
No lethal outcomes were reported because previously derived algorithm of detecting silent myocardial ischemia in patients with intermittent claudication and load tests (bicycle ergometry and drug stress tests) had allowed the surgeons to ascertain the extent of coronary damage and detect subclinical cardiac failure.
Routine spirometry and echocardiography in HF and COPD patients, respectively, is therefore warranted to improve current clinical practice.
According to the guidelines, an electrocardiogram, a chest X-ray and a standard echocardiogram should be obtained and the level of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) should be determined in every patient with signs and symptoms suggestive of HF.
Postmortem findings in 2 familial amyloidosis patients with the transthyretin variant (ATTR), Asp38Ala, are described Both showed cardiac failure, and progressive peripheral and autonomic neuropathy and died at the ages 82 and 57, respectively.
On the basis of monitoring the systolic, diastolic and mean pulmonary artery pressur at rest, during ergometric exercises and under identical conditions following premedicatio with cardiac glycosides (48 measurements in 12 patients with ischaemic heart disease) the authors concluded on the importance of studying this parameter for the diagnosis of initial stage cardiac insufficiency, and on its high informativeness for deciding the indications for initiating therapy with cardiac glycosides.
The authors revealed heart failure in 7 of 216 patients with gout.
Mentioned information inclined many authors to undertake researches on rhGH application in severe heart failure in patient with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and coronary disease.
The authors also noted an increase in exercise capacity during submaximal exercise, after 6 weeks of sildenafil in those patients with single left or mixed ventricular morphology and in those with more advanced heart failure (baseline serum brain natriuretic peptide level >100 pg/ml).
This document summarizes the experience, mostly ongoing and unpublished, of 12 Italian groups in that field, as presented in a recent national meeting, suggests recommendations about the collection of blood samples and analytical procedures for BNP assay, and presents a brief consensus on the use of BNP in heart failure, for different areas: a) population screening, b) differential diagnosis of heart failure in case of dyspnea in general practice and c) in the emergency room, d) prognostic stratification in patients with diagnosed heart failure, and e) hormone-guided treatment of heart failure.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the cut-off of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) Triage Assay (Biosite) in the diagnosis of HF in this population : 250 very older patients with age <or= 75 years (mean 82.7 years) were included in this study;
To compare the ability of different B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) assays to identify heart failure in stable elderly patients with a diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Inotropic challenge is at least as effective as exercise testing in assessing cardiac pumping capability in heart failure, and may be a better method in patients who find physical exercise difficult.
[Detection of cardiac insufficiency by computer-assisted monitoring of the response of intra-cardiac hemodynamics to exercise test in patients with ischemic heart disease with similar lesions of the coronary arteries (patient selection for the aortocoronary bypass)].
Usefulness of cardiopulmonary exercise testing in the diagnosis of heart failure was evaluated in a study of 59 patients with clinically suspected heart failure (22 men and 37 women) and 75 healthy control persons (34 men and 41 women), aged 45-74 years.
Data from symptom-limited exercise tests completed on patients with systolic HF participating in the Heart Failure: A Controlled Trial Investigating Outcomes of Exercise Training trial and taking a betaB agent were used to develop a simplified equation, which was validated using bootstrapping.
Our goal was to determine whether sympathetic nerve activity is increased in patients with heart failure and whether plasma norepinephrine levels correlate with levels of mSNA in heart failure.
Echocardiography establishes, in an easy and noninvasive way, the etiologic diagnosis of heart failure and is a very sensitive technique for the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with left ventricular hypertrophy.
We report the clinical case of a 13-year-old female patient with severe left ventricular disfunction, a very trabeculated left ventricle on echocardiography and two admissions in class IV heart failure.
The investigation most specific for patients with suspected heart failure (echocardiography) was performed less frequently, suggesting that the diagnosis of heart failure is still relatively neglected.
The use of echocardiography in predicting heart failure in patients with coronary artery disease.
Patients with a diagnosis of HF before or within 30 days of the echocardiogram were excluded.
According to the guidelines, an electrocardiogram, a chest X-ray and a standard echocardiogram should be obtained and the level of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) should be determined in every patient with signs and symptoms suggestive of HF.
Among a community cohort of incident HF patients diagnosed from 1984 to 2009 in Olmsted County, Minnesota, we obtained all EFs assessed by echocardiography from initial HF diagnosis until death or last follow-up through March 2010.
The REFER Study aims to determine the accuracy and cost-effectiveness of our previously derived novel, simple clinical decision rule, a natriuretic peptide assay, or their combination, in the triage for referral for echocardiography of symptomatic adult patients who present in general practice with symptoms suggestive of heart failure.
To evaluate the impact of cardiac output reduction on the regulation of the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in heart failure, GFR (inulin clearance), renal plasma flow [p-aminohippurate (PAH) clearance], invasive haemodynamics, blood volume, plasma renin and plasma catecholamines were measured in 34 patients with chronic CHF.
The occurrence of a non-compensatory filtration fraction response in the patients with the greatest impairment of CI and renal blood flow suggests that GFR becomes dependent on afferent arteriolar flow in the most severe heart failure, despite stimulation of haemodynamic and hormonal pathways, which would normally increase efferent arteriolar tone.
Patients lacking signs of congestion on ED chest radiography were more likely to have an ED non-heart failure diagnosis than patients with signs of congestion.
According to the guidelines, an electrocardiogram, a chest X-ray and a standard echocardiogram should be obtained and the level of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) should be determined in every patient with signs and symptoms suggestive of HF.
At an earlier time, acute myocarditis was suspected in 3 patients who had developed acute onset of heart failure, and the diagnosis was confirmed by endomyocardial biopsy in 1 patient.
The diagnosis of cardiac failure in medical or surgical patients with invasive hemodynamic monitoring provides physiologic data that guide pharmacologic treatment that may favorably influence preload and afterload in the failing or ischemic heart.
We present a case in which the efficacy of double chelation therapy in a patient with beta-thalassemia major and heart failure was demonstrated by MRI.
This trial supports the safety and accuracy of this pulmonary artery pressure monitoring system in patients with HF and the conduct of randomized trials of implantable hemodynamic monitoring in HF, using this system.
Respiratory muscle deoxygenation during exercise in patients with heart failure demonstrated with near-infrared spectroscopy.
The utility of M-mode echocardiography in the diagnosis of heart failure (HF) was evaluated in a study of 70 patients with suspected HF (26 men and 44 women) and 63 control persons (26 men and 37 women), all aged 45-74 years.
The purpose of this study was to determine the sensitivity and specificity of N-terminal part of brain natriuretic peptide plasma level (NT-proBNP) in the diagnosis of HF in Thai patients who presented with dyspnea.
Equally, BNP level can be particularly useful in recognizing heart failure in a patient with acute dyspnea and a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Therefore, the present study was performed to examine the effectiveness of BNP level in diagnosing heart failure in patients with CKD and to determine its effects on survival rate and prognosis.
BNP levels of patients with CKD showed a positive correlation with creatinine levels, and the critical point of BNP level for diagnosis of heart failure was 858.5 pg/mL.
The prevalence of high BNP levels in patients with PAD suggests that routine BNP measurements might be useful to detect HF.
This Quick Reference Guide for Clinicians summarizes major recommendations in Heart Failure: Evaluation and Care of Patients with Left-Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction.
This Quick Reference Guide for Clinicians summarizes major recommendations in Heart Failure: Evaluation and Care of Patients with Left-Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction.
The diagnosis of HF by a GP successfully identifies patients at high risk of death, comparable to patients with HF identified by cardiologists on the basis of defined diagnostic criteria.
1186 patients aged > or = 65 years with COPD diagnosed by their general practitioner who did not have a diagnosis of heart failure confirmed by a cardiologist.
A convenience sample of multidisciplinary health professionals working in heart failure care was invited to comment, via an online survey and consultation, on suitability and required modifications to a validated cancer care needs assessment measure to inform the support and palliative care needs of patients with CHF and their caregivers.
Thus, incorporating measurement of B-type natriuretic peptide into clinical evaluation helps physicians and nurses diagnose heart failure more quickly, especially in patients who have multiple comorbid conditions.
Centres with nurse-led follow-up of heart failure patients more frequently provided heart failure information (p<0.001), had more doctors interested in heart failure (p<0.001), more often had special care programmes (p<0.001) and had more co-operation with the hospitals around patients with heart failure (p<0.01), compared to centres without such follow-up (n=499).
Our study confirms that BNP can help physicians in identifying heart failure in patients suffering from an acute exacerbation of COPD.
Since only a small proportion of patients with heart failure are followed by cardiologists in Italy, further efforts are necessary until internists and general practitioners could be involved in treatment trials in heart failure.
The diagnosis of HF by a GP successfully identifies patients at high risk of death, comparable to patients with HF identified by cardiologists on the basis of defined diagnostic criteria.
A limited number of items easily available from history and physical examination, with addition of NT-proBNP and electrocardiography, can help general practitioners to identify concomitant heart failure in individual patients with stable COPD.
The natriuretic peptides, especially the B-type peptide (BNP) and its inactive split-product N-terminal proBNP (Nt-proBNP) are increasingly used in screening for heart failure, primarily with reduced systolic function, in patients with symptoms suggestive of heart failure, as well in the stable (General Practitioner) setting as in the acute setting.
Thus, incorporating measurement of B-type natriuretic peptide into clinical evaluation helps physicians and nurses diagnose heart failure more quickly, especially in patients who have multiple comorbid conditions.
Our data suggests that nurses trained in heart failure may have a similar performance to that of the cardiologist for the clinical detection of congestion and assessment of the hemodynamic profile in patients with chronic heart failure.
To clarify the pathophysiological roles of mAM and iAM in heart failure, we established an assay method to specifically detect mAM, and we determined the plasma concentrations of mAM and iAM in 68 patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
314 low-income patients 50 years of age or older with heart failure confirmed by their primary care physician.
In all three patients with TM, laboratory studies showed evidence of Coombs negative hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction and in addition cardiac failure in two patients.
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), NT-proBNP and NT-pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (NT-proANP) were measured in blood samples from 57 patients using immunoassays and immunoradiometric assays to evaluate the usefulness as diagnostic markers for the detection of heart failure.
A simple prognostic index based on ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and age may be a useful tool in predicting cardiac death and heart failure in patients with recent myocardial infarction.
We assessed the role of left ventricular ejection fraction and of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) to predict cardiac death and heart failure in patients with defibrillator fulfilling MADIT II criteria.
Jugular pressure > 6 cm with hepatic enlargement, and oedema of the lower limbs (LR 130.3), a ventricular gallop (LR 30.0), a heart rate above 110 bpm (LR 26.7), and rales at pulmonary auscultation (LR 23.3) were all associated with a diagnosis of heart failure, but were infrequent findings in patients with heart failure (sensitivity <10%).
Measurement of plasma NT-proBNP proved to be a useful diagnostic test in differentiating HF from other causes in patients who presented with dyspnea.
Electrocardiographic stress test EKG is the basic, diagnostic test in the heart failure, it is also used for patients with implanted pacemaker.
We therefore sought to determine the extent to which provider and hospital characteristics contribute to small-area geographic variation in heart failure care after controlling for patient factors.
Patients with diagnosed depression and/or anxiety (18% of the cohort) were frequently identified by providers within the first 30 days after a heart failure diagnosis.
We selected a retrospective sample of all patients with the primary diagnosis of heart failure, primary procedure of pulmonary artery catheterization, and with no other hospitalization procedures, admitted to Tufts Medical Center between 2000 and 2006.
To clarify the role of pharmacists in the care of patients with HF, we performed a systematic review evaluating the effect of pharmacist care on patient outcomes in HF.
The Pain Assessment, Incidence & Nature in Heart Failure (PAIN-HF) study will evaluate pain in patients with advanced heart failure.
In a secondary analysis of the BASEL study, initial chest radiographs of 277 patients with acute dyspnea were evaluated by two radiologists blinded to the adjudicated diagnosis (56% had the final diagnosis of HF).
The specific aims of this study were to (1) determine the psychometric properties of 2 fatigue questionnaires in patients with HF, (2) compare fatigue in patients with HF to published scores of healthy adults and patients with cancer undergoing treatment, and (3) identify the physiological (eg, hemoglobin, B-type natriuretic peptide, body mass index, and ejection fraction) and psychosocial (eg, depressed mood) correlates of fatigue in HF.
The TEAM-HF Costing Tool could prove to be a valuable resource for researchers and health care managers to generate comprehensive cost estimates of patient-centered interventions in heart failure or other conditions for conducting high-quality economic evaluations and making well-informed health care management decisions.
The contrasting concentration of CML and AGE-Fl between patients with CHF and after heart transplantation in the presence of decreased GFR and oxidative stress are explained by lowered plasma proteins in CHF and higher concentrations in heart transplant recipients.
Forty-eight patients (75% female, mean age 66 years) whose chest radiograph was amended for the diagnosis of congestive heart failure and were available for review formed the study population.
urgical patients undergoing preoperative cardiac catheterization demonstrated marked CHF: a mean left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 25.3 mm Hg.
For patients with first, isolated ST-elevation AMI, LVEF assessed by echocardiography still constitutes a strong and accurate independent predictor of early in-hospital CHF, superior to isolated MPI and left atrial volume in this particular subset of patients.
Patient's medical records with the diagnosis of CHF between January 2008 and December 2009 were reviewed The authors divided patients with CHF into two groups according to history of NSAIDs-exposure within a one year prior to admission.
This study used life table analysis techniques to evaluate the daily charges generated for diagnostic tests, procedures, and therapies for a sample of patients without regard to diagnosis and for patients with a primary diagnosis of congestive heart failure.
Left ventricular catecholamine and plasma norepinephrine levels were assayed in 39 patients undergoing cardiac transplantation to test the hypothesis that in congestive heart failure (CHF) the normally high concentration of myocardial norepinephrine is depleted while dopamine is increased because dopamine conversion to norepinephrine is the rate-limiting step in norepinephrine synthesis.
[Importance of electroimpulse therapy for restoration of work capacity in patients with auricular fibrillation].
From our study the indication for prophylactic treatment with anticoagulants for prevention of stroke in thyrotoxic atrial fibrillation seems doubtful, especially as no controlled studies of such treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation are currently available.
Serial submaximal treadmill tests are often used to evaluate the efficacy of therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Prophylactic therapy can therefore be directed to only those patients at risk for postoperative AF.
These data suggest that oral theophylline can represent a valid therapy in most patients with atrial fibrillation and a slow ventricular response.
The results of six randomized trials of antithrombotic therapy in patients with nonrheumatic AF are now available.
We provide examples of the impact of antiarrhythmic agents on the space-constant and suggest that assessment of the relative spatial organization of atrial activation using this methodology may potentially provide an objective framework to guide therapy in patients with AF.
Based on recent experimental studies, a number of speculations about future developments are made regarding the treatment of atrial fibrillation, the problem of proarrhythmia in patients with heart failure, and the treatment of ventricular tachycardia developing during the first 6 weeks following the onset of myocardial infarction.
To review the evidence for antithrombotic therapy in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation.
It is effective for atrial flutter, although approximately one quarter of patients treated with catheter ablation continue to require therapy for concomitant atrial fibrillation.
[Pacemaker therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation].
Radiofrequency catheter ablation of accessory pathways may represent the treatment of choice for patients with symptomatic atrio-ventricular reentrant tachycardia or atrial fibrillation and a high ventricular response through the accessory pathways with short antegrade refractory period.
Ablation and pacing therapy is a viable strategy for palliative management of patients with medically refractory, highly symptomatic atrial fibrillation.
Underutilization of antithrombotic therapy in elderly rural patients with atrial fibrillation.
Effective strategies for the secondary prevention of stroke include treatment of hypertension and hyperlipidemia, antithrombotic therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation, antiplatelet therapy, and carotid endarterectomy in patients with severe carotid artery stenosis.
It will be critical to define and plan therapies specifically for those patients with AF, HF, and preserved ejection fraction in addition to the population with low ejection fraction that has dominated previous investigations.
Incidence of vascular dementia is decreased by effective treatment of hypertension, diabetes and anticoagulatory treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Pharmacologic treatment remains the mainstay of therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm.
To measure the use, appropriateness, and safety of antithrombotic therapy in Hong Kong Chinese patients with atrial fibrillation.
These studies show that oral ximelagatran is well tolerated at doses of up to 60 mg, twice daily (bid), and that it is as effective as standard therapy for the prevention of thromboembolic events in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, for the treatment of clinically verified acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and in patients with nonvalvular AF who have a moderate to high risk of stroke.
In phase III studies, some oral inhibitors of both thrombin (dabigatran etexilate) and activated factor X (rivaroxaban, apixaban) have been employed as new anticoagulant drugs in patients with atrial fibrillation or acute coronary syndromes.
Anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation and end-stage renal disease.
For secondary stroke prevention, elevated NT-proBNP concentrations may identify a subgroup of ischemic stroke patients without known atrial fibrillation, about 5% based on the current study, who may benefit more from anticoagulants than antiplatelet agents.
The purpose of this study was to examine whether long-term use of anticoagulants in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) influences renal function.
Anticoagulants are recommended in patients with AF aged 75 years or above after assessing the bleeding risk using the HEMORR2HAGES or HAS-BLED scores.
Clinicians now have a viable alternative approach to cardioversion for patients with AF.
In the Ludwigshafener Observational Cardioversion Study (LOCS) a TEE was performed prior to electrical cardioversion in patients with atrial fibrillation who had been receiving oral anticoagulation adjusted to an international normalized ratio of 2 to 3 for at least three weeks.
[Current aspects of electrical cardioversion in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation].
Quality of life was assessed in patients included in the Rate Control Versus Electrical Cardioversion for Persistent Atrial Fibrillation (RACE) study (rate vs. rhythm control in persistent AF).
Reduced high serum hepatocyte growth factor levels after successful cardioversion in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Additional recent studies suggest that carvedilol may be useful in managing postsurgical atrial fibrillation and also may prevent recurrence of atrial fibrillation among patients who undergo cardioversion.
In addition, enoxaparin has been shown to be a safe and effective alternative to the combination of UFH and phenprocoumone therapy in patients undergoing electrical cardioversion for atrial fibrillation.
Non-compliance with digoxin in patients with heart failure and/or atrial fibrillation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies.
The oral anticoagulant edoxaban, a factor Xa inhibitor, will likely be coadministered with digoxin in some patients with atrial fibrillation.
The calcium-channel blockers verapamil or diltiazem, or select beta-blockers are efficacious for heart rate control at rest and during exercise for patients with atrial fibrillation without a clinically important decrease in exercise tolerance.
At receiver operating characteristic analyses, the threshold level for outcome prediction of NT-proBNP was higher in patients with AF (3883 pg/ml) than in patients in sinus rhythm (1653 pg/ml).
The threshold level of NT-proBNP for outcome prediction was different in patients with AF with respect to those in sinus rhythm.
he acute effect of verapamil on the ventricular rate in atrial fibrillation and flutter was studied in 15 patients, 13 of whom had heart rate inadequately controlled with digitalis.
The effectiveness of verapamil in controlling ventricular rate was evaluated in 20 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter with a rapid ventricular response (Group 1) and 30 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (Group 2).
The comparative effects of diltiazem and verapamil in 30 patients with long-standing atrial fibrillation were evaluated in a prospective clinical trial.
Because of this potentially fatal adverse response, verapamil should not be used in patients with atrial fibrillation and preexcited ventricular complexes.
[Verapamil in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in patients with thyrotoxicosis].
Of 18 patients who attended accident and emergency departments with pre-excited atrial fibrillation, 10 were inappropriately treated with intravenous verapamil.
The effects of slow-release formulations of gallopamil (100 mg b.i.d.), diltiazem (120 mg b.i.d.), or verapamil (120 mg b.i.d.) on VR were evaluated in 18 patients with PAF without organic heart disease.
Using stable isotope technology and a stereospecific assay, we compared the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of intravenous (10 mg of d(7)-R /S -verapamil) and oral (240 mg of slow release (SR) d(0)-R /S -verapamil) R -verapamil and S -verapamil after the first dose (day 1) and after 3 weeks (day 21) of continuous oral therapy in 8 patients with long-term atrial fibrillation.
100 consecutive patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) of at least four weeks' duration and indications for cardioversion were assigned randomly to two groups, one treated with verapamil (verapamil group) and the other with digoxin (digoxin group) before cardioversion.
Secondary prevention with anticoagulants and aspirin in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation having suffered a transient ischemic attack or a regressive vascular accident].
The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation II study compared the efficacy and safety of aspirin and warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
As such, aspirin is a valid alternative for patients with atrial fibrillation at a low risk of stroke but should not be used as an excuse to withhold anticoagulants in patients at greater risk.
This study suggests that the use of amiodarone in elderly patients with AF and a previous MI increases the risk of bradyarrhythmia requiring a permanent pacemaker.
These results favor amiodarone as a reasonable alternative for patients with recent AF in whom class Ic and other, more rapidly acting antiarrhythmic drugs cannot be used.
Effect of amiodarone on dispersion of atrial refractoriness and cycle length in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Direct current cardioversion is urgently recommended for patients with AF when hemodynamic instability is present even in patients with AF and pre-excitation in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) has long been used to assess for left atrial thrombus (LAT) in patients undergoing direct-current cardioversion (DCC) for atrial fibrillation or flutter.
In this retrospective study, 3,191 serial transesophageal echocardiographic studies in 2,705 unique patients (mean age, 66 +/- 13 years; 68% men) with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who underwent TEE before DCC from 1999 to 2008 were identified using the Cleveland Clinic echocardiography database.
In patients with persistent atrial fibrillation, dofetilide compared to placebo was significantly better in converting atrial fibrillation and maintaining sinus rhythm.
We compared low-dose glucocorticoid therapy (16 mg methylprednisolone for 4 weeks tapered to 4 mg for 4 months) and placebo in 104 patients who had experienced persistent AF with a median concentration of CRP 1.14 mg/dL (min=0.01, max=2.58).
Three trials tested aspirin in dosages ranging from 75 mg to 325 mg per day and 125 mg every other day to placebo (in two trials) or control (in one trial) in 1965 AF patients without prior stroke or TIA.
This randomized, double-blind trial compared cardioversion rates between AZD7009 infusion (15-minute 3.25 mg/min, 15-minute 4.4 mg/min, or 30-minute 3.25 mg/min) and placebo infusion (15 or 30 minutes) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) scheduled for DC cardioversion.
Compared with placebo or no use of anti-platelet drugs, antiplatelet therapy didn't reduce ischemic stroke (RR = 0.83, 95%CI 0.68 to 1.00, P = 0.05), systemic emboli (RR = 0.71, 95%CI 0.34 to 1.51, P = 0.38) and all-cause mortality (RR = 0.88, 95%CI 0.73 to 1.07, P = 0.21) while significantly increased the major bleeding (RR = 2.88, 95%CI 1.21 to 6.86, P = 0.02) in patients with NAF, intracranial hemorrhage was not affected by antiplatelet therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation (RR = 3.25, 95%CI 0.84 to 12.62, P = 0.09).
In 2011, results were published from 3 pivotal AF trials: the Rivaroxaban Once Daily Oral Direct Factor Xa Inhibition Compared with Vitamin K Antagonist for Prevention of Stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation (ROCKET-AF), the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) study, and the Permanent Atrial Fibrillation Outcome Study Using Dronedarone on Top of Standard Therapy (PALLAS), comparing dronedarone with placebo in patients with permanent AF and additional cardiovascular disease risk-factor burden.
The aim of our systematic review was to critically evaluate randomized controlled trials that compared treatment with dronedarone versus placebo or amiodarone in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Postmarketing surveillance using Medicare Part D claims data linked to clinical data may help inform comparative safety, effectiveness, and net clinical benefit of drug therapy for AF in older patients in real-world settings.
Pharmacotherapy of AF has improved over time, though CHADS2 guidelines need to be implemented systematically in primary health care in Sweden to decrease the risk of stroke and improve quality of life in patients with AF.
In all, 504 articles were identified and 15 were selected (studies examining pharmacotherapy [rate or rhythm control] and HRQOL in AF patients with a mean age >/= 65 years).
One hundred fifty-one patients who had mitral valve replacement, were in atrial fibrillation, and were treated with Coumadin had seven embolic events (4.6%), while 135 similar patients treated with aspirin had five embolic events (3.7%).
On the other case, it was associated with mitral valve replacement for atrial fibrillation of 7 years' duration in a patient with dilated cardiomyopathy and a poor left ventricle;
We compared the outcomes of these patients with those of 61 control patients with preoperative atrial fibrillation who underwent mitral valve replacement alone during the same interval.
Fifty-one patients who had double-valve replacement, were in atrial fibrillation, and were treated with coumadin had three embolic episodes (5.9%), while 86 similar patients treated with aspirin had three embolic events (3.5%).
20 patients with atrial fibrillation and rapid ventricular response were treated with the new calcium-antagonist Gallopamil.
To guide antithrombotic management in patients with atrial fibrillation, several stroke and bleeding risk prediction schemes have been developed.
Management of antithrombotic therapy for acute coronary syndromes and atrial fibrillation in patients with hemophilia.
Comparative assessment of right, left, and biventricular pacing in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation.
Assessment of rhythm and rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Historically, transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) has been the gold standard for assessment of the left atrial appendage (LAA) in patients with atrial fibrillation and other atrial arrhythmias.
Assessment of intraventricular systolic asynchrony in patients with atrial fibrillation using triplane tissue Doppler imaging.
Diminished circadian variation in heart rate variability before surgery in patients developing postoperative atrial fibrillation.
Many patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery have risk factors for both atrial fibrillation (AF) and stroke.
Cardiac autotransplantation is a safe and effective surgical option for the treatment of permanent atrial fibrillation in patients with long-lasting mitral valve disease and severe enlargement of the left atrium.
The aim of this study was to investigate the process of postoperative atrial remodeling in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation who undergo mitral surgery.
We studied patients who attended the Leiden Anticoagulation Clinic for treatment relating to mechanical heart valve prostheses, atrial fibrillation or myocardial infarction and underwent surgery at the Leiden University Medical Centre between 1994 and 1998.
Atrial remodeling after mitral valve surgery in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation.
Large multicentre trials have proven beyond doubt the value of aspirin in TIAs, warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation and embolic cerebrovascular symptoms, and carotid endarterectomy in patients with carotid TIAs.
Differential effect of aspirin versus warfarin on clinical stroke types in patients with atrial fibrillation.
The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation II study compared the efficacy and safety of aspirin and warfarin in patients with atrial fibrillation.
The ROCKET AF trial compared rivaroxaban (20 mg/day; 15 mg/day in patients with creatinine clearance 30-49 ml/min) with dose-adjusted warfarin (international normalized ratio 2-3) in 14,264 patients with AF and a prior history of stroke or at least two other additional risk factors for stroke.
Because it is not clear which technique is less expensive, the purpose of this study was to compare the cost of radiofrequency modification and ablation of the atrioventricular (AV) node in drug-refractory patients with atrial fibrillation and an uncontrolled ventricular rate.
Symptomatic Improvement was evaluated in 64 patients with drug-refractory atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who underwent atrioventricular (AV) nodal ablation and permanent pacemaker implantation.
Patients (n = 141) with persistent AF (pAF) underwent concomitant left atrial (LA) endocardial ablation, performed by six surgeons.
While this approach provides excellent exposure of the mitral valve, it necessitates development of novel strategies for concomitant ablation in patients with atrial fibrillation.
We aimed at assessing the feasibility and efficacy of remote magnetic navigation (MN) and ablation in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).
Study of surface electrocardiogram spectrum before and after pulmonary vein ablation in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation.
Anticoagulation for Emergency Department Patients With Atrial Fibrillation: Is Our Duty to Inform or Prescribe?
Among the 16 patients without a cardiology evaluation, the rate of anticoagulation was high and did not differ for patients with short AF (90%, 9 of 10) and long AF (83%, 5 of 6) (P > .99).
In addition, increased mortality has been suggested in patients treated with antiarrhythmics for atrial fibrillation especially in the presence of structural heart disease.
Beta adrenoceptor blocking drugs are administered, as an antiarrhythmic agent in patients with hyperthyroidism, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter and ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
The aims of this study were to (1) assess the antiarrhythmic efficacy of d,l sotalol maintaining normal sinus rhythm in patients with refractory atrial fibrillation or flutter, (2) evaluate the efficacy of d,l sotalol in preventing recurrences of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter, (3) evaluate the control of ventricular rate in patients with paroxysmal or refractory atrial fibrillation or flutter unsuccessfully treated with other antiarrhythmic agents, (4) determine predictors of efficacy (5) assess the safety of d,l sotalol in this setting.
New and emerging antiarrhythmic and anticoagulant agents offer advantages over established agents and may improve outcomes in patients with AF.
Further results from trials and clinical use will better define the efficacy and safety profile of dronedarone in AF compared with other antiarrhythmic drugs and its role in the management of patients with AF.
In 323 patients with 2 years of follow-up, 72% achieved AF elimination off antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs), 15% achieved AF control with AADs, and 13% had recurrent AF.
However, in 103 patients who completed additional assessment with Mayo AF Symptom Inventories (on a scale of 0 to 48), those with AF elimination off AADs had a change in AF symptom frequency score of -9.5 +/- 6.3, which was significantly higher than those with AF controlled with AADs (-5.6 +/- 3.8, p = 0.03) or those with recurrent AF (-3.4 +/- 8.4, p = 0.02).
Most patients with newly diagnosed AF made a first contact with Primary Care, but around half were sent to Hospital Emergency departments, where they were treated with an antiarrhythmic and/or oral anticoagulation.
A randomized, single-blind, parallel-control, multicenter clinical trial is being conducted to compare RSD with antiarrhythmic drugs (AAD) in patients with drug-resistant hypertension and symptomatic AF (RSDforAF trial).
[Use of kinilentin in patients with transient atrial fibrillation].
Noninvasive support for and characterization of multiple intranodal pathways in patients with mitral valve disease and atrial fibrillation.
Dormant pulmonary vein conduction induced by adenosine in patients with atrial fibrillation who underwent catheter ablation.
This study investigated the detailed characteristics of dormant PV conduction in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) who underwent catheter ablation.
Thromboembolic risk and anticoagulation strategies in patients undergoing catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation.
574 patients (61 +/- 9 years; 449 men) with drug-refractory PAF or PsAF underwent CA.
Catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation is an effective treatment for symptomatic patients who have failed drug therapy.
Data for 792 patients who underwent catheter ablation for AF at Johns Hopkins Hospital between years 2001 and 2009 were systematically reviewed.
Subjects were 50 patients who underwent catheter ablation for drug-resistant AF.
Patients treated with catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation have long-term rates of death, stroke, and dementia similar to patients without atrial fibrillation.
The use of balloon atrial septostomy to facilitate difficult transseptal access in patients undergoing catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation.
Comparative efficacy and safety of new oral anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Recent randomized controlled trials have shown that new oral anticoagulants (dabigatran, rivaroxaban en apixaban) in patients with atrial fibrillation are equally or more effective in preventing cerebral infarction than vitamin K antagonists (VKA).
Regulatory approval and reimbursement within the National Healthcare System of these new oral anticoagulants for patients with AF at risk of stroke are expected to progressively modify anticoagulant therapy for most patients on warfarin treatment.
This review describes different algorithms for the use of new oral anticoagulants in everyday clinical practice, also in AF patients with concomitant renal dysfunction, with a special focus on drug interactions and bleeding risk.
To determine the use of oral anticoagulants in polypathological patients with atrial fibrillation and its influence on mortality and loss of functionality.
Oral anticoagulants are underused in polypathological patients with atrial fibrillation despite being associated with more survival.
Until recently, warfarin was the only available oral anticoagulant used to decrease this risk in patients with AF.
A review of oral anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Vitamin K antagonists are widely used as treatment of venous thromboembolism and for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.
After showing at least noninferiority to warfarin in RE-LY, ROCKET-AF, and ARISTOTLE trials, dabigatran (110 or 150 mg twice daily), rivaroxaban (20 or 15 mg once daily), and apixaban (5 mg twice daily), respectively, were approved also for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.
RE-LY was a phase III study that compared the safety and efficacy of warfarin, dabigatran 150mg bid and dabigatran 110mg bid for stroke prevention in patients with AF.
Patients undergoing a first-time ablation procedure for symptomatic, persistent AF that is refractory to at least 1 antiarrhythmic medication will be included.
Linear block at the left atrial (LA) roof may be challenging in some patients undergoing an ablation procedure for atrial fibrillation.
Evaluate long-term outcomes in patients undergoing the Convergent procedure (CP) for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF).
In a clinical study, the rates of deep SSI were compared between 188 patients who underwent procedures involving spinal instrumentation without AFS (group 1) and 196 patients who underwent procedures involving spinal instrumentation with AFS (group 2).
We recorded magnified surface electrocardiogram (ECG) and P-wave signal-averaged ECG using 12 electrode leads before and after 31 PV isolation procedures in 27 patients with AF.
These results suggest that signal-averaged ECG of P-wave may be helpful for identification of patients with recurrence of atrial fibrillation after successful direct-current electrical cardioversion.
ECG showed atrial fibrillation in 13 of 39 patients with myocardial damage.
This was a multicenter, retrospective, cross-sectional study of consecutive records of ED patients with AF identified by ECG between January and June 1998.
The presence of AF at stroke onset and during the acute phase was confirmed by a standard electrocardiogram in 869 (24.6%) of 3530 patients with ischemic stroke.
The study population comprised patients aged 75 and over with electrocardiogram (ECG) confirmed atrial fibrillation.
Prediction of atrial fibrillation in patients with cardiac dysfunctions: P wave signal-averaged ECG and chemoreflexsensitivity in atrial fibrillation.
A genotype-dependent intermediate ECG phenotype in patients with persistent lone atrial fibrillation genotype ECG-phenotype correlation in atrial fibrillation.
METHODS: Patients >60 years with acute ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attacks (TIA) were prospectively enrolled unless initial ECG revealed AF or they had a history of paroxysmal or persistent AF.
Patients >60 years with acute ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attacks (TIA) were prospectively enrolled unless initial ECG revealed AF or they had a history of paroxysmal or persistent AF.
Patients with AF confirmed by ECG were prospectively enrolled in the Vanderbilt AF Registry, which comprises clinical and genetic databases.
In 8810 patients with neither a history of AF nor AF at baseline, Minnesota coding of electrocardiograms confirmed new-onset AF in 353 patients (4.0%) during mean 4.9 years of follow-up.
Eligible subjects were consecutive patients with AF identified by electrocardiogram during an ED evaluation who were discharged from the ED or the subsequent hospitalization off warfarin.
In conclusion, this review provides an up-to-date discussion of the evaluation of diastolic function assessment in AF and how it may be important in the clinical management of patients with AF.
Patients seen in the ED with atrial fibrillation and different primary ED diagnoses are older and have high short- and long-term mortality rates: mortality was three times higher than in patients with primary ED diagnoses of atrial fibrillation.
Patients older than 75 years, with underlying cardiac disease, with inconclusive echocardiograms with bundle branch block, or in atrial fibrillation were excluded.
Patients in whom atrial fibrillation (AF) was induced by EPS at day 7 after ablation were considered the inducible AF group (n = 14), and patients in whom AF was not induced by EPS at day 7 after ablation were considered the noninducible AF group (n = 10).
We tested a hypothesis in which the result of an initial cTnI assay helps predict new-onset AF (NAF) early in the course of ischaemic stroke in patients with sinus rhythm on admission.
The authors report a case of an elderly patient in whom atrial fibrillation and bradycardia developed shortly after she began treatment with fluoxetine.
The authors studied the efficacy of this technique at short and medium term in a population of 36 patients (28 men and 8 women) in whom atrial fibrillation persisted despite attempts to reduce it by antiarrhythmic drugs and external electrical cardioversion.
The authors examined 69 patients by transesophageal echocardiography, subdividing them into 3 groups: 26 patients in sinus rhythm in Group A (Gr.A), 22 patients in atrial fibrillation without thrombi in the left atrial appendage in Group B (Gr.B), 21 patients with tromboembolism and with thrombus in the left atrial appendage (Gr.C).
We evaluate a new strategy that uses transesophageal echocardiography to identify patients in atrial fibrillation without atrial thrombi who may be safely cardioverted without preceding anticoagulation and we also address the embolic event and anticoagulation issues in patients with atrial flutter.
Transesophageal echocardiography was used to assess cardiac abnormalities associated with embolization in patients who had completed the Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study of Stroke Prevention in Nonrheumatic Atrial Fibrillation at the Minneapolis and West Haven Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centers without an embolic event.
We report a case of a patient with coexisting aortic stenosis and atrial fibrillation diagnosed intraoperatively by transesophageal echocardiography with myxoma of the left atrial appendage.
P wave dispersion and P wave duration on SAECG in predicting atrial fibrillation in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Left atrial strain and strain rate in patients with paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation: relationship to left atrial structural remodeling detected by delayed-enhancement MRI.
Carotid ultrasonography was done in 676 patients with AF enrolled in the Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Study to detect cervical carotid stenosis of 50% or more of the luminal diameter.
This French study was set up to collect perceptions of general practitioners (GPs), cardiologists and patients on anticoagulation therapy with vitamin K antagonists (VKA) in the management of thromboembolic risk in atrial fibrillation (AF).
The Joint Panel of the American Academy of Family Physicians and the American College of Physicians, in collaboration with the Johns Hopkins Evidence-based Practice Center, systematically reviewed the available evidence on the management of newly detected atrial fibrillation and developed recommendations for adult patients with first-detected atrial fibrillation.
Outcomes were measured using evaluation feedback from the general practitioners, and drug utilization data were provided by a series of patients presenting to the hospital with an admission diagnosis of AF and dispensing of antithrombotic therapy under the Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
This French study was set up to collect perceptions of general practitioners (GPs), cardiologists and patients on anticoagulation therapy with vitamin K antagonists (VKA) in the management of thromboembolic risk in atrial fibrillation (AF).
The aim of this study was to assess the clinical utility of Holter monitoring in detecting occult AF in patients with possible cardioembolic stroke.
During Holter monitoring, 18 of 57 included patients with standard reason for pacemaker implantation showed episodes of AF or AT.
Previous studies have reported a low, approximately 1% to 3%, rate of detection of occult atrial fibrillation (AF) with Holter monitor in patients with acute stroke.
The 24-hour Holter monitoring revealed newly detected atrial fibrillation in 9.4% of patients with stroke.
Continuous monitoring versus HOLTER ECG for detection of atrial fibrillation in patients with stroke.
Investigators reviewed the charts of patients with a diagnosis of AF cared for by medical specialists to determine the change in blood pressure, patterns of antihypertensive drug use and the role of the specialist in the management of hypertension.
This retrospective, observational study was based on data entered by 128 PCPs into the Health Search (HS) Thales database, identifying patients with a diagnosis of AF at the time of the analysis.
Heart failure, cardiogenic shock, arrhythmia (more than three VPS within 1 min and atrial fibrillation), and three-vessel disease detected by coronary angiography were found more often in the myocardial infarct patients without previous angina and these differences were statistically significant.
ECG telemetry detected atrial fibrillation in 27 of the 112 patients examined (24%), which meant that anticoagulation treatment was provided to 22 patients who otherwise would have received platelet inhibitors.
In the present study we investigated prospectively whether P wave duration on SAECG and P wave dispersion on standard ECG can predict development of AF in a group of patients with AMI.

